we begin with a dramatic rescue earlier
today in central Gaza Israeli Special
Forces were able to extract four
hostages from captivity alive the Army
released footage which it says shows
25-year-old Noah aramani entering a
helicopter during the rescue operation
you see it right there three men were
also brought out alive AAS militants
kidnapped all four of them at the Nova
Music Festival during the terror attacks
on October 7th last
year Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has called it a remarkable
rescue he has vowed to bring home the
remaining
hostages her first moments of Freedom
after more than 8 months in
captivity Noah aramani reunited with her
family at an Israeli
Hospital prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu was also there to welcome her
home
footage of Hamas abducting Noah and her
boyfriend in the October 7 Terror
attacks was among the first to
emerge three men were also freed in the
operation almog mu
Jan Andre
klov and schoi
ziv it's Israel's biggest rescue
operation of the war so far Netanyahu
vowed to bring the remaining hostages
home Israel just carried out a
remarkable rescue
operation of four hostages held by
Hamas this operation required Ingenuity
and courage of the highest
degree and our soldiers
performed in an unmatchable way we're
committed to getting the release of all
the
hostages and we expect Kamas to release
them all but if they don't we'll do
whatever it takes get them all back home
Israel released this footage which it
says shows three hostages being
freed the news sparked celebrations
outside the
hospital and was announced to beachgoers
in Tel
Aviv but in Gaza people are mourning the
Dead the Hamas government media office
says Israeli air strikes in central Gaza
killed more than 200 people hundreds
more are injured in the same area where
the hostages were
rescued hospitals are overwhelmed a
resident describes what she saw at the
newsat refugee
camp people were standing on the road
thinking they're safe suddenly a jet
struck them now they're dead children
were on that street they had nothing to
do with this they were
innocent the Israeli occupation Army
committed a horrific massacre in newat
Camp the occupation directly targeted
civilians in nerat Market which was busy
with vendors customers and
refugees Israel says it was targeting
militant infrastructure the Palestinian
Authority is calling for an emergency
meeting of the US Security Council all
right I want to bring in our
correspondent in Jerusalem Tanya Kramer
she's been on this story for us all day
Tanya the Israeli defense minister
calling this a daring operation that
took months to plan what has the army
said about this
operation well first of all I think it's
a very emotional day here in Israel a
lot of people were celebrating the news
and the Israeli Army said that this was
a very risky daytime operation based on
intelligence that were supported by you
know the uh the air strikes uh and
artillery F heavy fighting also in that
area and they have been rescuing those
four hostages they said they were held
in two uh apartment PLS apparently not
really very far from each other one of
the one of the hostages of a a young
woman nor aamani she was held alone uh
in one of the apartments and the other
three were held together so they managed
to uh extract them from there as the
Army said under heavy fire and then
bringing those to the beach area of Gaza
and then take them from there uh with
helicopters to Tel Aviv and just a word
to Noah aamani she became a bit the face
on October 7th she was taken by
motorcycle by the militants to Gaza her
boyfriend is still in Gaza as hostage
his fate is unknown and that also is of
course of great concern to Israelis here
the 120 or so just remaining there on
the ground in Gaza there are reports
that more than 200 Palestinians were
killed in Israeli strikes in roughly the
same area where the hostages were
rescued um what have you heard about
that
Tanya yeah there were reports early on
today uh uh that these air strikes were
happening also from eyewitnesses uh in
Gaza and uh this happened in narad in
central Gaza narad where a lot of
displaced Palestinians have taken uh
shelter there it's a refugee uh Camp so
um we understand from the Ministry of
Health there in Gaza uh Hamas saying
that 210 people were killed 400 were
injured and we've been hearing from
medical sources of the hospital one of
the last hospitals actually uh working
there that they have been taken in many
uh injured people there are overwhelmed
and there has also been a lot of uh
videos uh of the aftermath circulating
uh on social media uh uh from uh the day
to day there okay DW is Tanya Kramer
with the latest tonight from Jerusalem
Tanya as always thank
you we want to stay on the story of the
hostages today I'm joined Now by sahiro
Shahar Moore from Tel Aviv his uncle
Abraham Mundo is still being held
hostage in Gaza so hero it's good to
have you with us we appreciate you
taking the time to talk with us today I
mean four hostages is rescued today um
how did you feel when you heard the
news overwhelmed with joy I I personally
know the father
ofu yovani and it it it was great seeing
him getting United with his daughter
after such a long time and and and so
much waiting it it really filled my my
heart with joy and we got great news for
four families today in Israel that four
mothers will hug their their son or
daughter amazing amazing news does does
this give you hope that your uncle may
also be brought home safe and sound one
day I'm afraid not not in this way not
in a military operation we know that my
uncle is is kept below ground
and probably much heavier security and
um I I don't think there is no
possibility of of of a military
operation releasing all the
120 ER people that are still kept in in
captivity the the the the only way to
get them back is signing a a deal there
is no other way to get them back well
where does that leave then the
the your country Israel um tomorrow I
mean the Prime Minister this is a good
day for him he did not have to answer
the ultimatum from Vinnie gun about a
plan for a post-war Gaza I mean do you
see this as a green light for this war
cabinet to continue on with this
campaign in
Gaza I'm afraid so I'm afraid so I'm
afraid that the the the people who see
short sight and and see okay we we
released four maybe we can release the
the rest of them there is no way the
only way to release the whole the the
whole group of them together uh whoever
is still alive of course is is signing a
deal and in order to sign a deal the war
the fighting must be stopped and this is
a price that Israel is still reluctant
to pay and this is why Benjamin Nan had
his you know day in the Sun so to speak
he got a lot of nice photo
ops um you know but tomorrow we are
waking up to to the same reality that we
were yesterday and the day before that
there are still 120 people in for less
it's it's it's great relief of course
for these four families but 120 other
families are still in the same situation
as they were a week ago a month ago
seven months ago but Z do you think that
the the public mood in Israel will
change enough if all the hostages were
brought home on the condition that Hamas
is allowed to remain intact in some form
I mean is that something that the
Israelis are willing to
swallow right now I don't see the Israel
as willing to swallow something like
this but right now they are not the
Israelis are not talking about the day
after at all so you know it's like um
whatever what what will happen after we
s we saw that parts of Gaza the northern
Gaza the idei to had to come back again
and sometimes again because you know
after conquering a land you need to give
the keys so to speak to someone to to
take control to seize power over this uh
over this land and if you do not then
practically the Kamas is still holding
on so uh I think there must be some way
to to to
negotiate a a something you know like uh
um a middle ground you know maybe a a
some sort of of a political Hamas I I
really don't know but right now this is
a very hard pill to swap follow for for
most of Israeli public but then again
Public Public public view do change yeah
well Ziro we we appreciate you taking
the time to talk with us and um we
certainly wish you and we your uncle all
the best zahiro Shahar Moore thank
you thank you very much well here with
me at the big table now in our studio is
our Middle East analyst shaie
rosanis shaie that just gentleman there
he does not think that the current
course of Israel is going to result in
bringing all of the hostages back home
safe and sound he wants an end to the
fighting is that what a majority of
Israelis want tonight well that's that's
exactly the rift tearing apart the
Israel Society for for months now
there's the hostages families but not
just them a big part of the Israeli
Society who support the need for a deal
and that and understand that that would
probably be the only way to bring uh
them all of them or the almost 120 left
there especially if you look at the
numbers in the last8 months Israel have
managed to release or to retrieve alive
only seven of those hostages each one we
know they're all even now in this case
there one of them was kept alone and the
three others uh together so just scatter
they're all scattered in all many places
in in in Gaza Strip and many of them
also underground so it's not really
feasible that's what a big part of the
population said on the other hand more
of the right leaning part also the right
that is the part that is more important
for n as his base there are those who
feel like it's only military might and
further pressure on Hamas that will
bring uh more hostages home and will
bring Hamas to make some concessions
Hamas says and we were reporting this
earlier that um 200 Palestinians were
killed today where those four Israeli
hostages were rescued in Gaza and you've
been working your sources what have you
learned well it it's not by accident of
course this is all connected the Israeli
forces were not operating at the center
of narat this morning at broad daylight
when this operation started so they had
to find their way in probably using some
trucks maybe uh we hear some reports
from Palestinians that these were
actually supposedly Aid trucks if that
was the case we might see uh very severe
and dire implications for the supply of
Aid into Gaza uh in the next days coming
from that but aside of that the biggest
problem was for the forces once they
have taken the hostages to find their
way out to find a a way to escape
without you know jeopardizing the lives
of the soldiers and and the hostages and
that required heavy bombardments and a
lot of artillery from the Israeli forces
and this is where we see most of the P
casual you know casualties on the
Palestinian side many of them civilians
including you know uh Children and
Families the way the Israelis say that
you know they point the blame on Hamas
saying Hamas have chose to embed the
hostages among civilians to to operate
within very densely populated areas of
the Gaza Strip and that you know they
should be the one to blame for that if
these four hostages had not been rescued
today would we be here tonight talking
about the the collapse of the Israeli
government the maybe the end of Benjamin
Netanyahu it seemed to be that case but
now he seems to be stronger uh than ever
but but you know we've also seen Benny
gun the the the centu former General who
was uh supposed to set speech today
basically quitting his support for this
government um he canceled it but he also
said that he understand that this is a
tactic achievement but it doesn't change
the need for a strategic shift in
Israel's policy so Israel's problem are
very much the same as they were
yesterday nothing has you know
substantially changed in the situation
we will also see the Americans secretary
blinkin coming to Israel later this week
they want to see progress you know they
want to see dramatic strategic shift in
the future of Gaza in Israel's conduct
with the war and they're still hoping
this can be achieved and you know these
are live pictures that we're looking at
right now you know this is the mass
support that we see of many
demonstrations today uh this night
supporting for the hostages and their
release and the deal pushing netan to go
forward for the deal claiming this is
the only way to actually bring back all
the hostages left um without
jeopardizing jeopardizing further lives
of soldiers and of the hostages
themselves and there's also great
concern about from these families right
now as we speak because they understand
Hamas will probably change the way it
operates now in Gaza in order to protect
the hostages kept in order you know to
avoid any Israeli military operations
further down the line so many of those
soldiers uh the hostages like we were
seeing today they were held above ground
if any of them are still left above
ground many of them are now being you
know sent into the tunnels um and
there's great fear for their lives if
you talk to their family members in
Israel shie as always it's good to have
you here in the studio good to get your
analysis as well thank you you're
welcome